RHDEVDOCS-5509: Configuring build strategies (#63401)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-securely-referencing-string-parameters.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// builds/configuring-build-strategies.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ob-securely-referencing-string-parameters_{context}"]
= Securely referencing string parameters

> You can reference string parameters by using the `$(params.PARAM_NAME)` parameter in your build strategy steps. You can use string parameters when defining environment variables, arguments, or images in a `BuildStrategy` or `ClusterBuildStrategy` CR. 

Reviewer: Is $(params.PARAM_NAME) a parameter or is it a syntax? Could it be referenced as `PARAM_NAME` ? I don't see any parameters reference that follow this format in our docs. There are a few other instances of this, and I'm not sure if I understand them correctly.

Author: This is a synatx a user must use to define a string or an array parameter in a build startegy.

Author: @apoorvajagtap @jkhelil Can we change the parameter syntax from $(params.PARAM_NAME) to only $(PARAM_NAME)?

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should reference it as just `PARAM_NAME`. Any parameter to be specified in buildStrategy has to be as per `params.PARAM_NAME` syntax. For reference please check [here](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/blob/main/samples/buildstrategy/buildah/buildstrategy_buildah_shipwright_managed_push_cr.yaml#L169).
If required, we can change the way we highlight `PARAM_NAME`, but we should keep `params.`.

> You can reference string parameters by using the `$(params.your-parameter-name)` syntax in your build strategy steps. You can use string parameters when defining environment variables, arguments, or images in a `BuildStrategy` or `ClusterBuildStrategy` CR. 

Reviewer 3: Worded like a procedure.

[NOTE] 
====
You can also reference system parameters and strategy parameters by using the `$(params.your-parameter-name)` syntax in your build strategy steps. 
====

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> In the pod, all `$(params.your-parameter-name)` syntaxes will automatically be replaced by actual strings. However, you must pay attention when you reference a string parameter in an argument by using an inline script. For example, to securely pass a parameter value into an argument defined with a script, you can choose one of the following approaches:

Reviewer 4: @shipsing There's nothing incorrect about using the plural "syntaxes", but $-anything defines a variable, right? I am putting the question to you since that's my understanding....

> In the pod, all `$(params.your-parameter-name)` variables will automatically be replaced by actual strings. However, you must pay attention when you reference a string parameter in an argument by using an inline script. For example, to securely pass a parameter value into an argument defined with a script, you can choose one of the following approaches:

Reviewer 3: Avoid future tense whenever possible. 

```suggestion
In the pod, all `$(params.your-parameter-name)` variables are replaced by actual strings. However, you must pay attention when you reference a string parameter in an argument by using an inline script. For example, to securely pass a parameter value into an argument defined with a script, you can choose one of the following approaches:
```

> * Using environment variables: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an environment variable, instead of directly using it inside the script. By using quoting around the environment variable, you can avoid the command injection vulnerability. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `ko` or `buildpacks v3`. The following example uses an environment variable inside the script to reference a string parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Using environment variables*: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an environment variable, instead of directly using it inside the script. By using quotes around the environment variable, you can avoid the command injection vulnerability. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `ko` or `buildpacks v3`. The following example uses an environment variable inside of the script to reference a string parameter:
```

> * Using environment variables: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an environment variable, instead of directly using it inside the script. By using quoting around the environment variable, you can avoid the command injection vulnerability. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `buildpacks v3`. The following example uses an environment variable inside the script to reference a string parameter:

Reviewer 3: Could this and its following item just be discrete subsections of this module? Unsure about the value of formatting them as an UL.

> * Using environment variables: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an environment variable, instead of directly using it inside the script. By using quoting around the environment variable, you can avoid the command injection vulnerability. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `ko` or `buildpacks v3`. The following example uses an environment variable inside the script to reference a string parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Using environment variables: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an environment variable, instead of directly using it inside the script. By using quoting around the environment variable, you can avoid the command injection vulnerability. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `buildpacks v3`. The following example uses an environment variable inside the script to reference a string parameter:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: BuildStrategy
metadata:

>   name: ko

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name: buildpacks-v3
```

spec:
  parameters:
    - name: sample-parameter
      description: A sample parameter
      type: string

>   buildSteps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  steps:
```

    - name: sample-step
      env:
        - name: PARAM_SAMPLE_PARAMETER
          value: $(params.sample-parameter)
      command:
        - /bin/bash
      args:
        - -c
        - |
          set -euo pipefail

          some-tool --sample-argument "${PARAM_SAMPLE_PARAMETER}"   
----

> * Using arguments: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an argument defined within your script. Appropriate shell quoting guards against command injection. You can use this approach for strategies, such as `buildah`. The following example uses an argument defined within your script to reference a string parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Using arguments*: In this approach, you pass the string parameter into an argument defined within your script. Appropriate shell quoting guards against command injection. You can use this approach for strategies such as `buildah`. The following example uses an argument defined within your script to reference a string parameter:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: BuildStrategy
metadata:
  name: buildah
spec:
  parameters:
    - name: sample-parameter
      description: A sample parameter
      type: string

>   buildSteps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  steps:
```

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// * builds/configuring-build-strategies.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ob-securely-referencing-string-parameters_{context}"]
= Secure referencing of string parameters

String parameters are used when you define environment variables, arguments, or images in a `BuildStrategy` or `ClusterBuildStrategy` custom resource (CR). In your build strategy steps, you can reference string parameters by using the `$(params.your-parameter-name)` syntax.

[NOTE]
====
You can also reference system parameters and strategy parameters by using the `$(params.your-parameter-name)` syntax in your build strategy steps.
====

In the pod, all `$(params.your-parameter-name)` variables are replaced by actual strings. However, you must pay attention when you reference a string parameter in an argument by using an inline script. For example, to securely pass a parameter value into an argument defined with a script, you can choose one of the following approaches:

* Use environment variables
* Use arguments

[id="using-environment-variables-approach_{context}"]

> == Using environment variables approach

Reviewer 3: "Using" makes this and the other section seem like procedures. 

Could reduce repetition of "approach" by removing H2s and turning them into labeled code blocks.

Ex:
```
.A BuildStrategy CR that passes values by using environment variables
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: BuildStrategy
metadata:
  name: buildpacks-v3
spec:
  parameters:
    - name: sample-parameter
      description: A sample parameter
      type: string
  steps:
    - name: sample-step
      env:
        - name: PARAM_SAMPLE_PARAMETER
          value: $(params.sample-parameter)
      command:
        - /bin/bash
      args:
        - -c
        - |
          set -euo pipefail
          some-tool --sample-argument "${PARAM_SAMPLE_PARAMETER}"
----
```
